Compact Snapshot Hyperspectral Imaging with Diffracted Rotation
•
117:5
matching is formed as
λ (θ) =
(
λmin + (λmax −λmin) N
2π θ
0 ≤θ < 2π
N
λ

θ −2π
N

θ ≥2π
N
,
(10)
which is a periodic function with the period 2π
N and matches linearly
onto the wavelength range of the visible spectrum from 420 nm to
660 nm in each period. The number of periods N is called the number
of wings since it actually produces a spiral-shaped PSF with N wings.
Now we can write the entire height map ∆h (r,θ) with this angular
wavelength matching λ (θ) as follows:
∆h (r,θ) =
nλ (θ) −
p
r2 + f 2 −f

∆ηλ
,
(11)
h (r,θ) = h (0, 0) + ∆h (r,θ) ,
(12)
whereh (0, 0) is set as the maximum height determined by the height
resolution of DOE fabrication. Figure 2 shows our DOE height map
designed with three wings (N = 3) and its spectrally-varying PSFs.
The spiral shape of the period is symmetrical about the center of the
120-degree rotation. We found that setting N = 3 in Equation (10)
gives the best reconstruction accuracy.
When the wavelength increases, the size of the PSF barely changes
and its shape rotates clockwise about its center. These PSFs have a
very clear spectral cue, diffracted rotation of the anisotropic shape.
Also, the size consistency and anisotropy of the PSFs are expected
to improve the accuracy of the reconstruction process. Figure 3
compares a traditional Fresnel lens and our DOE with their PSFs
with different wavelengths1. Refer to Section 7 for an evaluation in
terms of spectral reconstruction.
4.2
Spectral Image Formation
Our main objective is to capture hyperspectral images using a con-
ventional RGB image sensor with our diffractive lens under natural
incoherent illumination. Therefore, our image formation includes
the camera response function through color filters, but the quantum-
efficiency function for a monochromatic sensor can be used alter-
natively. Suppose that we want to capture a hyperspectral image
Iλ (x,y) from a captured RGB image on the sensor Jc (x,y) with a
spectrally-varying point spread functionpλ(x,y) and that the sensor
has the sensor spectral sensitivity function Ωc (λ) for each color
channel c ∈{r,д,b}. The captured image Jc can be represented as
Jc (x,y) =
∭
Ωc (λ) Iλ (µ,ν)pλ (x −µ,y −ν)dµdνdλ.
(13)
The spectral image formation model can be simply expressed as
Jc (x,y) =
∫
Ωc (λ) (Iλ ∗pλ) (x,y)dλ,
(14)
where ∗is defined as the convolution operator.
We can write the image formation model in a discrete vector-and-
matrix form. Let I ∈RW HΛ×1 be the original hyperspectral image
vector and J ∈RW H3×1 be the captured RGB image vector, where
W , H, and Λ are the width, height, and the number of wavelength
channels of a spectral image, respectively. We can represent the
1We simulate PSFs using a reference simulation tool of diffraction, LightPipes (http:
//www.okotech.com/lightpipes).
Fig. 4. Overview of our network architecture that consists of unfolded L-
time iterations as a chain of the subnetwork architecture that includes a
prior network (Figure 5). We learn parameters in an end-to-end manner.
Fig. 5. Network architecture of the prior network, based on U-net. Our
network consists of the feature encoding and the decoding parts with skip-
connections with soft-thresholding.
sensor sensitivity Ωc (λ) and the convolution by the PSF pλ (x,y)
as matrices Ω∈RW H3×W HΛ and P ∈RW HΛ×W HΛ, respectively.
The measurement matrix Φ ∈RW H3×W HΛ is the product of Ω
and P. We then represent the continuous image formation model in
Equation (14) in a discrete matrix form:
J = ΦI.
(15)
5
SPECTRAL RECONSTRUCTION FROM DIFFRACTION
Our spectral reconstruction problem is to solve a combined mixture
of two subproblems: First, when capturing the input data, each spec-
tral channel is convolved with its spectrally-varying point spread
function. Therefore, a non-blind deconvolution needs to be con-
sidered to reconstruct clear spectral channels. Second, the blurred
spectral channels of the entire visible spectrum are also projected
to three color channels of the image sensor (or one channel for
a monochromatic sensor). The combination of these two inverse
problems significantly increases the ill-posedness of spectral recon-
struction. State-of-the-art spectral reconstruction methods take a
data-driven approach [Choi et al. 2017; Lin et al. 2014] that mainly
learns the prior information of natural spectral images and then
formulates an optimization problem separately to reconstruct hy-
perspectral images with a handcrafted prior. They are not fully
end-to-end solutions and also require heavy computational costs for
the optimization process. In this work, we devise a complete end-
to-end reconstruction method based on the optimization procedure
with a spatial-spectral prior to account for spectral deconvolution
with the rotating PSF.
5.1
Optimization Problem
Since W H3 ≪W HΛ in Equation (15), our hyperspectral image re-
construction problem is a severely under-determined system. There
could be many solutions that satisfy the input measurement. To
reconstruct a hyperspectral image ˆI ∈RW HΛ×1, an objective func-
tion of spectral reconstruction requires a prior of spectral images in
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 38, No. 4, Article 117. Publication date: July 2019.
