117:6
•
Jeon, Baek, Yi, Dun, Fu, Heidrich, and Kim
addition to the data term as follows:
ˆI = arg min
I
∥J −ΦI∥2
2 + R (I) ,
(16)
where R(·) represents an unknown prior function of spectral images.
As this regularization term is not often necessarily differentiable
in optimization, we decouple the data term and the regularization
term by reformulating Equation (16) as a constrained optimization
problem by introducing an auxiliary variable V ∈RW HΛ×1:
(ˆI, ˆV) = arg min
I,V
∥J −ΦI∥2
2 + R (V)
s.t.
V = I.
(17)
The half-quadratic splitting (HQS) method can convert Equation (17)
into an unconstrained optimization problem:
(ˆI, ˆV) = arg min
I,V
∥J −ΦI∥2
2 + ς ∥V −I∥2
2 + R (V) ,
(18)
where ς is the penalty parameter. Equation (18) can be solved by
splitting it into two subproblems:
I(l+1) = arg min
I
∥J −ΦI∥2
2 + ς
V(l) −I

2
2 ,
(19)
V(l+1) = arg min
V
ς
V −I(l+1)
2
2 + R (V) ,
(20)
where I(l) and V(l) are the solutions for the l-th HQS iteration.
Since the measurement matrix of the spectral imager is very
large, calculation of the inverse part of the equation requires heavy
computational cost. To mitigate the cost issue, we take the gradient
descent method alternatively to solve Equation (19). Solving it once
provides sufficient convergence to a local optimal [Dong et al. 2018].
In this way, the solution of Equation (19) can be expressed as
I(l+1) = I(l) −ε
h
Φ⊺
ΦI(l) −J

+ ς

I(l) −V(l)i
= ¯ΦI(l) + εI(0) + εςV(l),
(21)
where ¯Φ = [(1 −ες) 1 −εΦ⊺Φ] ∈RW HΛ×W HΛ andε is the gradient
descent step size. For each optimization iteration stage, it updates the
hyperspectral image I(l+1) with three parts. The first part calculates
gradients of the measurement matrix by multiplying I(l) with ¯Φ. The
second part comes from I(0) = Φ⊺J weighted by the parameter ε. The
third part computes the prior term weighted by ες. This optimization
iteration is repeated L times.
5.2
Hyperspectral Prior Network
As the HQS algorithm separates the measurement matrix Φ from
the unknown regularizer R (·), the prior term in Equation (20) can
be represented in the form of a proximal operator. Here, instead
of using a handcrafted image prior like the TV-l1 norm [Choi et al.
2017], we instead define a network function S(·) for hyperspec-
tral images, which yield the auxiliary variable of the image prior:
V(l+1) = S(I(l+1)) by solving Equation (20) in a form of a neural
network with soft-thresholding, following ISTA-Net [Zhang and
Ghanem 2018]. Figure 5 shows the architecture of the hyperspectral
prior network.
We devise this prior network architecture with two main objec-
tives: First, the network should learn both spatial and spectral prior
of spectral images. Second, the network should reconstruct spec-
tral images from diffracted rotation of the PSF. To account for the
spectral deconvolution with a relatively large kernel, we adopt the
U-net [Ronneberger et al. 2015] to utilize a multi-scale architecture
to cover a large receptive field. In our network, the first convolu-
tional layer uses 3 × 3 × Λ filters to produce a tensor with a feature
size of Γ, where Λ is set to 25 and Γ is set to be larger than 64 to
enforce the sparsity of spectral gradients. The network then gener-
ates multi-scale features with a contracting path with max-pooling
and an expansive path with up-convolution layers. For each level,
two convolutional layers encode spatial-spectral features. With skip
connections, the scaled features are concatenated with upper scale
features. Finally, we produce a tensor of original hyperspectral cube
size with a convolutional layer with 3 × 3 × Γ filters.
5.3
Optimization-based Unrolled Network
Recently, state-of-the-art optimization-based unrolled network ar-
chitectures [Dong et al. 2018; Wang et al. 2019; Zhang and Ghanem
2018; Zhang et al. 2017] were proposed by adopting, for instance,
the traditional ADMM and ISTA methods in a neural network form,
and they outperform existing methods for image restoration. Our
method also adapts this recent advance in neural network research
in our hyperspectral reconstruction problem but with three main
differences: First, the ill-posedness of our spectral reconstruction
problem is significantly higher than that of the other image restora-
tion problems because our rotating PSF occupies a larger area than
an ordinary PSF. To address these characteristics, we design our
spatial-spectral prior network with the U-Net architecture to make
the perceptive field wide and also combine it with soft-thresholding
to achieve local gradient smoothness. Second, instead of using a
handcrafted sparsity prior, we learn the unknown spatial-spectral
prior directly from spectral images. To do so, we formulate our
optimization problem such that it is differentiable using the HQS for-
mulation, which is solved with the Tikhonov regularization [Zhang
et al. 2017]. Lastly, we use the l1-norm loss function when training
the network in order to compensate for the absence of the sparsity
prior in our network. Figure 4 provides an overview of our network
architecture.
We train the full network by end-to-end learning including the
weight parameters of the spectral prior network and the optimiza-
tion parameters: the gradient descent step size parameter ε and
the penalty parameter ς. Note that all these parameters are learned
separately for each stage through L number of iterations, following
Wang et al. [2019], because the optimization parameters should be
updated adaptively as the input quality of each stage increases.
6
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
DOE fabrication. Our 16-level hyperspectral DOE is fabricated by
iteratively applying photolithography and reactive-ion etching (RIE)
techniques [Heide et al. 2016]. The substrate is a 0.5mm thick 4-inch
fused silica wafer with both sides polished. In the photolithography
step, we use a pre-designed binary mask and ultra-violet illumina-
tion to transfer the desired patterns to a photoresist layer formed
on the substrate by spin-coating. To ensure high resolution in the
pixelated patterns, we create masks with 1µm resolution by a high
resolution direct laser writer. After chemical development, we can
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 38, No. 4, Article 117. Publication date: July 2019.
